The following programme
contains flashing images.
(BELL RINGS LOUDLY)
(HUM OF CONVERSATION)
(PULSING HEARTBEAT)
(ELECTRICITY FIZZES)
(HEARTBEAT STRONGER)
(MOANS)
(PANTS)
(CRIES OUT)
(GROANS)
Ugh.
(CREATURE GRUNTS AND GROANS)
(CRIES OUT)
(PANTING)
Ah-ha-ha!
Ah-ah-ah-ah....
Ha! Ha!
Ha!
(LAUGHS)
(SLURPS)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACH)
(SIGHS)
(CREATURE CRIES OUT)
No!
No! No! Stay where you are.
Keep back.
Keep back!
No, no. Do as I say.
Do as I say!
(YELLS)
(LOW MUSICAL HUM)
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
(INDUSTRIAL POUNDING BEATS)
(WHISTLES SHRIEK)
(POUNDING STOPS)
(MUFFLED VOICES)
(WHISTLE BLOWS)
(POUNDING AND FIZZING)
# Come gather ye
feast on our Empire's riches
# New heaven on Earth
shall to all ages rise
# Those ravenous dogs
singing sweet hallelujah
# The angels will feed on the draft
and the swine #
(RAUCOUS SHOUTS)
(LIVELY JIG)
Give me what I've paid for now!
Help!
Come on, you...
Oh, thank you, sir! Thank you!
(MIMICS DRINKERS)
(SHE GIGGLES)
Oi.
One good turn deserves another.
Wanna come with me?
I've got wine. We can drink.
What's your name? I'm Gretel.
(CREATURE SNIFFS DEEPLY)
'Ere, what you playin' at?
Give us a kiss, at least!
Christ!
I'm not gonna scream.
I'm... just gonna walk away.
All right, mister?
Just walkin' away. All right?
(UPROAR)
WOMAN: There it is!
(JEERING AND SHOUTING)
MAN: ..ye shall burn
in the belly of hell!
And the vipers of vengeance
shall spit their venom.
Come unto the Lord,
for the pit is prepared,
the fire is ready,
the furnace is hot
that shall receive the wicked!
Let us seek your salvation
in the blood of Christ!
Cast off the fiend Satan!
(CALLS OUT)
(BIRDSONG)
# UNDERWORLD: Dawn of Eden
(BIRDS SING SWEETLY)
(HEAVENLY CHOIR)
(CHORUS BUILDS)
(SWELLS TRIUMPHANTLY)
(BIRDSONG)
(CRIES OUT JOYFULLY)
(SHOUTING JOYFULLY)
(MUSIC SUBSIDES)
(BIRDSONG)
(HE SHIVERS)
(CHORUS SWELLS)
(LAUGHS)
(MUSIC STOPS)
(GUTTURAL SPLUTTERING)
(SPEECH-LIKE SOUNDS)
GUSTAV: Klaus! Where are you?
Over here!
Come and get warm.
I will.
What's in the pot?
What's left of the rabbit.
Where'd you get to?
Ingolstadt.
Any luck?
No. They're jittery as hell.
The women and children
are locked indoors.
The men go armed with cudgels.
What's going on?
Scared of their own shadows
they are in Ingolstadt.
Well, tomorrow we'll move on,
try and beg some bread.
This is all right, though,
nice bit of rabbit.
A man needs bread.
I met a woman in Augsburg once,
her husband was a baker.
I hung around Augsburg
for a very long time.
Nice place, Augsburg.
Very nice place. Welcoming.
(CREATURE GROANS)
What's that? What is it?
I don't know!
Piss off!
Bugger off!
Watch out.
CREATURE: Agh!
Run! Quick!
But the food!
Leave it, Gustav!
Look at the state of him!
A monster!
Piss off! Bugger off!
(CREATURE YELLS)
Agh!
Agh! Agh!
(SNIFFS)
(SHOUTS)
Ooh! Ooh! Ooh!
Ugh! Ugh!
Mmm!
Ah!
(FOOTSTEPS)
(There he is! Get him!)
(CREATURE CRIES OUT)
That'll teach you to scare us!
Eat our supper!
Now piss off, you ugly bastard!
And don't come back!
(CACKLES)
(CRIES OUT ANGRILY)
I'm leaving your food on the table,
and there's some milk.
Thank you, my dear.
You treat me well.
We're going to work now, Father.
Should be back by nightfall.
You behave yourself
while we're gone!I'll try.
Have you managed to clear
the top field?No.
Slow progress.Harder than we
thought, but we'll win in the end!
We have to grow something
or we'll starve.
We'll get faster
when we know what we're doing.
In a year or two, we'll be fine.
We'll be farmers!
(OLD MAN CHUCKLES)
I never thought I'd be a farmer!
Are you ready?
For the cold and the mud?
Can't wait!
Bye, old man!
Bye, Father.
Goodbye, Felix.
You married a lovely girl.
I know.
Bye!
How do you manage to stay so
cheerful?What choice is there?
This is where we've ended up
and this is what we have to do.
Come on.
Wait, Agatha!
Do you know how beautiful you are?
Hm?
I swear I will love you for ever.
You'd better!
Hey! Hey!
When will you give me a son,
beautiful wife?
Come! We've work to do!
(PLAYS WISTFUL TUNE)
Take the food if you want it.
There's nothing else worth taking.
Oh, there are books, I suppose.
At least they have left me my books.
You've no reason to harm me.
I won't hurt you.
I can't see you.
I don't fight on any side.
Go on, citizen, take the food.
G-g-g...
Can't you talk?
Maybe you can't.
It's nothing to be ashamed of.
Look at me. I'm blind!
There was a cannonball and I...
I went blind.
Now my son looks after me.
You look after them
when they're little,
they look after you when you're old.
That's the way it is.
But we fell on hard times
when the soldiers came through.
When people are not oppressed,
they're full of brotherly love,
but when times are hard, well...
Then you find out who your friends
are, don't you?
(SHOUTS INCOHERENTLY)
Piss off! Bugger off!
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
I beg your pardon?
Piss off! Bugger off!
Oh, you want some music?
(CHUCKLES)
You want some more music?
Music.
M.. M... M...
It's a gift from God.
Go on. Say it.
"Music."
Moo...ck.
You see?
You pluck the strings, like this...
(PLAYS CHORD)
AGATHA: Look at the stones!
The field's full of them!
I'm so sorry, Agatha,
it has to be cleared.
I can't plough it till it's done.
Oh, well, the sooner we start!
OLD MAN: P.
CREATURE: Puh.
A.
Ah.
R.
Uhra.
A.
Ah.
D.
Duh.
I.
I-ee.
S.
Csssh.
E.
Eee.
Para...
..dise!
..dissse!
Paradise!
(CHUCKLES)Write it out.
Paradise.
My like. Nice word.
Agh!
Don't be afraid.
This is how I see.
Please?
My!
You have been in the wars.
What happened to you?
Where are you from?
Where are your mother and father?
CREATURE: Par-a-dise! Ha!
AGATHA: Felix?
Felix! Felix!
What is it?
Look!
What?
Just look!
What is..?
But that's...
It's incredible! It's a miracle!
Or magic.
Every stone is gone! Every one!
We can till the soil!
We can sow!
Help me fetch up the plough!
Quickly!
CREATURE: White! What?
Where?In the air!
That's snow.
It's not very interesting.
A natural phenomenon, no more.
Now please stop leaping about.
We need to concentrate.
Snow! Snow!
Sit, boy!
We've work to do.
Thank you.
Today original sin.
Or-i-gi-nal sin.
There are two schools of thought.
One says that we are all made
imperfect
and require the assistance
of a higher authority, a deity,
to overcome the sin of being born.
The other school of thought,
to which I subscribe,
insists that when we leave the womb
we are pure,
that a babe in arms
is untainted by sin,
that evil is the product
of social forces
and that God has nothing to do
with how a man turns out,
be it good or be it bad.
Me not do bad thing.
I know you do not do bad things.
You have a good heart, I know that.
Why my hungry? Why no food for me?
Eh?
I give you half of my food.
Still hungry.It is the condition
of men to be hungry.
Not kings! Not emperors!
You're learning fast.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
Why my not a king?
I don't know.
Perhaps you are.
Yes! A king! Is my name?
I don't know.
King what?
You've never told me your name.
Never heard. Not know.
You're are a poor lost thing.
(MIMICS) Lost thing.
But I have taught you how to speak,
how to read!
There is hope.
Who knows what you may accomplish?
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
They hate me.
Who does?
Men. Women. Childs. Dogs.
No, they don't.
They throw stones, beat me.
Everywhere!
Peasants are ignorant people.
They do not read, like you and I.
It's an instinct to protect
the home, the family.
Perhaps they are frightened of you.
My look bad.
Not like Agatha.
Agatha?
Beautiful wife!
Well, Agatha is beautiful,
certainly, and Felix is kind.
Let me introduce you to them.
No. They hate me.
No, they don't,
they've never met you!
Stay and greet them
as they come home.
Snow! Snow! Snow!
FELIX: Agatha!
Agatha! Look what I found!
And me, look what I found!
It's all chopped,
ready for the fire.
Just lying there at the top
of the field.
These were left by the stove.
The hare's already gutted.
Not a mark on the birds.
How were they caught, then?
It's a mystery.
Who's doing this, Felix?
Somebody wants to help us...
But who?
Who would do that?
We're strangers here.
Faerie folk.
Faerie folk?
Little people.
You know, elves and sprites!
Come here! Ssh!
Um...
Er, hello?
Are you there?
Is anybody watching?
Come out if you are!
We'd... um...
We'd like to thank you!
Please?
Please come out.
They won't come out.
There's nobody there, you fool!
It's just us.
You see, we stick together
through thick and thin
and never stop loving each other.
And magical things happen.
Father! Father!
OLD MAN: The evenings grow warmer.
Soon it will be spring.
There's a cheery thought!
Why?
Well, spring, you know!
"Ha, ha, ha!"
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
Spring makes you happy? Why?
Well, we're still alive!
How long are we meant to be alive
for?
Let's turn for home.
It's getting dark.
How can you tell?
You have no eyes.
(BIRD SINGS SWEETLY)
Hear that bird?
It's a nightingale.
That means it's getting dark.
The bird makes the dark?
That's impossible!
No, my friend, no.
Don't you remember your Milton?
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
"The wakeful nightingale..."
"The wakeful nightingale
she all night long
her amorous descant sung.
Silence was pleased.
Now glowed the firmament
with living sapphires.
Hesperus, that led the starry host,
rode brightest,
till the moon,
rising in clouded majesty,
at length apparent queen,
unveiled her peerless light
and o'er the dark
her silver mantle threw."
It is night in the Garden of Eden.
Do you see the moon?
There. There it is.
Describe it to me.
Solitary.
That's a good word. Good.
And sad, like me.
Why is it sad?
Because it is solitary.
Why are you sad?
Because with all that I read,
all that I learn,
I discover how much I do not know.
Ideas batter me like hailstones.
Questions but no answers.
Who am I? Where am I from?
Do I have a family?
You have us. My son will not
turn you away, I promise you.
Come along and say hello to him.
No!
Why not? It's a simple request.
Do not request it again!
I have been reading Plutarch,
"The Lives of the Emperors."
Ah, yes, the founders
of ancient Rome,
men who showed that the world
could be improved!
Why do men live in herds in cities?
I cannot imagine a city.
I cannot imagine Rome.
The numbers are too great.
We band together to help one another
and do good.
But then you massacre each other.
Yes. It's inconsistent.
I do not like inconsistence!
Why must it be so?I don't know.
That's the way it is.
How do I find out the way
that it is?
I don't know.
As you get older...
Oh, De Lacey! All the time you say
you do not know, but you do know!
Why do you grasp everything,
and I nothing?
Why must I learn it all,
and it flies to you on the wind?
I am the one who stands
outside the door.
I see inside, but I daren't go in.
What is it exactly that frightens
you?Everything! Everything!
Why do you live in a hut
in the woods? Why not a great city?
Because I am poor.
Why?
Because an army came by
and ransacked my university.
We were driven from the town.
Am I poor?
Yes.
One day, though,
you will find someone
who will make you
the wealthiest man in creation.
Will I?
Yes!
A good man deserves it.
You are a good man.
Someone will love you,
whoever you are.
What is love?
"Awake, my fairest,
my espoused, my latest found
Heaven's last best gift,
my ever new delight!
Awake!"
(GENTLE GUITAR)
(TEMPO BUILDS)
(GASPS)
(MUSIC ENDS)
I ran from a building.
It was dark. I was frightened.
Is that all you can remember?
I do not know how to remember.
But you have a memory,
you have remembrance.
But how is it done?
What is the process?
I don't know how it is done!
Then how am I doing it?
I do not know!
You ran from a building
in Ingolstadt.
But the author of this journal
says he's from...
Geneva. He says he's from Geneva.
"Victor Frankenstein,
citizen of Geneva."
Frankenstein?
Where is Geneva?
To the south and west,
many days' ride. Read on.
"Preparing a frame for the
experiment, with all its...
in-tri-ca-cies... of fibres,
muscles, and veins,
is a work of great difficulty.
Should I attempt the creation
of a being like myself,
or one of simpler organisation?"
"A being like myself?"
Meaning what? A man, a woman?
De Lacey, I see things in my sleep!
They are called dreams.
What did you see?
Someone! Her arms were long
and her eyes were...
It was a good dream?
It was pleasing! Is that good?
A good dream doesn't mean
it was morally good.
It only means it wasn't a bad dream.
There are bad dreams?
AGATHA: Hello!
FELIX: Father!
Felix and Agatha!
Stay and meet them.
No, I cannot!
These are good people.
They're not like the others!
I don't know what
you look like, my friend,
but I know there is room
in the world for fellowship,
room in the world for love!
Prejudice can be overcome!
Stay! I will speak for you!
We're finished for the day!
I'm here! Hold my hand.
I must run!
No. Trust me! Trust me?
Stay here. Stay.
They will hate me!
No, I promise you, no!
Father?
This is my friend, he...
G... Good day, sir.
CREATURE: Mmmm...
(AGATHA SCREAMS)
What is it?
Get away from him, you! Get away!
Let him go, you devil!
You leave my father alone!
No, no, there's...
It's revolting!
Get out! Get out!
Drive it out!
No! Felix! He's...
Thrash it! Thrash it! Kill it!
You promised!
Awful, awful beast!
Are you hurt?
It's all right. You're safe.
We won't leave you again.
He was hungry!
He did me no harm!
Have you no compassion?
It was a monster!
No man is a monster!
But it wasn't a man!
What have I done?
Dear God, what have I done?
(SOBBING)
(ROARS)
What do they do
when they feel like this?
The heroes, Romans, what do they do?
I know.
They plot. They revenge.
I sweep to my revenge!
Fire! Fire! Fire!
(VIOLENT DISCORD)
(MUSIC DROWNS OUT VOICES)
(HARSH RHYTHMIC PULSING)
(SWEET MELODIC CHIMES)
(LAUGHTER)
CHILD: 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22...
Down!
23, 24...
(WOMAN SHOUTS PLAYFULLY)
25, 26...
Get ready, everyone!
27, 28, 29,
29 and a half... 30!
Ready or not, I'm coming!
Whoa! I'm giddy!
You'd better be well-hidden!
Hello, boy. Don't turn around!
What?
I said don't turn around!
Please don't.Very well, sir.
Where am I?
Near Geneva.
Geneva?
Yes, sir. The lake!
Can't you see it? It's there!
How it glistens!
I've come a long way,
walking at night.
Fish in the streams.
Do you fish?
Oh, yes!
What do you catch?
What bait do you use?
I should go to my friends.
We're playing!
Guess who I am.
Are you a friend of the family's?
Yes.
Then you're a judge,
or a minister, perhaps.
I am a judge. Don't look!
Don't look at me!
I shan't.
What's your name?
William. What's yours, sir?
You can be my friend, William.
We can climb those mountains,
go hiking.
We can climb those mountains
over there!
Climb Mont Blanc?
Yes!
Great!
Let's go, friend!
No, I'm not allowed. Sorry.
Father would be angry!
Forget him. Come with me.
Let's climb Mont Blanc!
I'd like to, but I can't!
We must be friends, William.
Everyone has friends.
I have to find my father!
Let me go! Let me go!
I will release you,
if you answer my question.
What is it?
I seek a man called Frankenstein.
Have you heard of him?
That's my name!
You? You're Frankenstein?
(SCREAMS) You're ugly!
Leave me alone!
Victor Frankenstein?
He is your father?
No! Victor's my brother.
Where is he?
He's at home. He's always at home.
Can I see him?
No, of course you can't!
(WILLIAM SPLUTTERS)
We must be friends, William.
We'll climb those mountains,
right to the top,
after you've taken me to Victor.
No! You're revolting!
What is he? What does he do?
He's a scholar, a genius!
Was he ever in Ingolstadt?
Yes, he studied there.
He's come home to marry Elizabeth.
But he's silly,
he never leaves his room.
He's missing everything!
You will bring him to me. Come.
No, I shan't!
(SCREAMS) My father's a magistrate!
He'll punish you for this!
You'll go to prison! Help!
Quiet, boy!
VOICES: William!
William! William!
MAN: This is where you were playing?
WOMAN: Yes, we were hiding.
He was coming to find us.
Where were you hiding?
Down at the boat-house.
You didn't see anything?
No, nothing.
Heard nothing?
He was calling out.
I thought it was part of the game!
William! William!
Divide into teams!
You, you, come with me!
They are looking, everyone
is looking, you may go home.
William's missing! How long
has it been?Since this afternoon
but you may go home.
I have a duty to help, Father.
Victor, it doesn't help anybody
when you become agitated.
He's my brother!
You let me join the search! I must!
SERVANT: Monsieur Frankenstein,
look at this!
It's William's hat.
What was he doing here?
We were playing hide-and-seek.
And you didn't keep him in view?
I was hiding from him.
How could I keep him in view?
But where were you?
Well, where were YOU?
Locked in your study, I suppose?
William wasn't my responsibility.
He was yours!
You have responsibility
for what, exactly?
Enough!
The villagers are saying... Clarice?
They say they've seen a beast
in the mountains, sir.
A beast? What kind of a beast?
A monster. Tall as a pine tree!
They say it breathes blue fire!
And they think this thing
took William?
Someone took him! He can't be found.
No-one knows what's up
those mountains.
I know what's up those mountains.
Snow and ice.
And a bit more snow and ice.
That's all!
Spread out and keep looking!
He may be nearby.
SERVANTS: William! William! Willy!
What do they mean, a monster?
They've seen some sort of animal,
presumably.
They didn't say an animal.
They said a monster, a... creature.
Folk tales!
Who exactly saw it?
I don't know! Does it matter?
Victor, you don't look well.
I haven't seen you for weeks.
You're always up in your room.
Why do you need to see me?
We're supposed to be
getting married!
Oh.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
So I'm supposed to...
Talk to me occasionally, yes!
What if I haven't got anything
to say? What am I meant to do then?
SERVANTS: Monsieur! Come and see!
On the lake!
What is it?
An open boat!
It's drifting against the current!
That's impossible!
Against the wind!
Is someone pulling it?
No!Is there anybody aboard?
Haul it in!
Quickly.
Careful.
William?
CLARICE: Is it the child?
ELIZABETH: Oh, please, no!
He is dead, Father.
Is it him?
CLARICE: Angels in heaven!
Little William!
Have mercy on his soul!
My boy.
Let me see him.
Carry him.
Sound the bell.
My son is dead.
What are those papers?
Victor, it looks like your hand.
These are diagrams, equations.
University work!
What are they doing here?
It seems they're pages from my
journal.Where is your journal?
I don't know. I lost it.
I don't know where it is!
Victor!
(BELL TOLLS)
(LABORIOUS POUNDING)
Are you here?
(WIND HOWLS)
Where are you?
Are you here?
Show yourself, you monstrous thing!
My God!
Muscular co-ordination
hand and eye. Perfect balance!
Excellent tissue!
The sutures have held!
Well, I failed to make it handsome,
but I gave it strength and grace.
What an achievement!
Unsurpassed in scientific endeavour!
Oh, God, the madness of that night!
The heat, the sweat, the infusions!
The moment I saw it crawl
towards me, I...
You ran away.
What?
You... abandoned me.
It speaks!
Yes, Frankenstein. It speaks!
You know my name?
My journal!
Why did you abandon me?
I was terrified. What had I done?
Built a man and given him life!
Well, now I have come
to take it away.Have you?
I have come to kill you!
To kill me?
Then why did you create me?
To prove that I could.
You make sport with my life?
In the cause of science!
You were my greatest experiment,
but an experiment
that has gone wrong.
An experiment that must be
curtailed!
(GRUNTING)
Be still, genius!
I have a request.
Damn you, you can't have requests!
Oh, I can!
Listen to me, it is your duty!
I've no duty to a murderer!If I am
a murderer, you made me one!
You killed my brother!
You did it, not me!
I curse the day
that you drew breath.
Since then, I have lived
in darkness.
"Is this the Region,
this the Soil, the Clime,
Said then the lost Archangel,
this the seat
That we must change for Heav'n,
This mournful gloom
For that celestial light?"
That's Paradise Lost!
You've read Paradise Lost?
I liked it.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
Why? You saw yourself as Adam?
I should be Adam,
God was proud of Adam,
but Satan's the one
I sympathise with.
For I was cast out, like Satan,
though I did no wrong.
And when I see others content,
I feel the bile rise in my throat,
and it tastes like Satan's bile!
This is remarkable! You are educated
and you have memory!
Yes, I use it to remember
being hunted like a rat,
running from human places,
finding refuge in the woods.
I use it to remember
being beaten and whipped.
And I was good. I wanted to be good!
Then why did you kill William?
I wished to see you, and you came.
Would you have come otherwise?
If I had killed half of Ingolstadt,
would you have come?
Did no-one show you kindness?
There was an old man,
he taught me many things.
But he was blind,
he never saw my face,
he never knew I looked like this!
After a year, after he'd described
to me the seasons,
and I'd watched them go round,
one, two, three, four...
when I was one year old,
he said they'd take me in,
the son and his wife,
beautiful wife.What happened?
You know what happened.
Oh, God, I do!
I burned them in a fire.
I... I am sorry, I...
Sorry? You're sorry?
You caused this!
This is your universe, Frankenstein!
Here is my request.
I wish to be a part of society,
but no human being
will associate with me.
But one of my own kind,
one just as deformed and horrible,
she would understand, she would...
I'm sorry, what..?
I want a female built like me.
A female?
You made me like this.
You alone have the power to...
To create another brute,
another monster?
No, I will not.
It is my right!
You have no rights! You are a slave!
You want me to build you a female,
so the pair of you
can be wicked together.
No, I will not!
Torture me as much as you like,
I will never consent!
I will not torture you.
I will reason with you.
Isn't that what we do?
Have a dialogue?
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
There is no dialogue with strangers,
with murderers!
Yet, you'd murder me if you could!
Why, you have just tried!
So, why is your killing justified
and mine is not?
Because... I won't argue with you!
My God! I'm up a mountain,
debating with a...
A living creature!
A nothing!
A filthy mass of nothing!
I am your master.
You should show respect!
A master has duties.
You left me to die!
I am not a slave. I am free!
Ha!
If you deny my request
I will make you my enemy.
I will work at your destruction.
I will dedicate myself.
I will not rest
until I desolate your heart!
I apologise.
I did intend to reason.
I am capable of logic.
I do not think what I ask
is immoderate.
A creature of another sex,
but just as hideous as I am.
If you consent,
we'll disappear for ever.
We'll go to the wilds
of South America
and build our little paradise there
and live there in peace.
And no human being will see us
again.
What do you say?
I am amazed!
You have learnt so much, so fast!
Are you proud of me?
Proud? No.
Why not?
Your logic is flawed.
Is it?
You say you wish to go abroad
and live in exile
yet you also say
you yearn to be accepted by society.
Won't you grow tired of exile?
Won't you return
and try again to live among people,
only to meet with their detestation
because that is
what you will meet with?
Only now, when you run wild,
there will be two of you
and double the destruction.
Why should I facilitate this?
Because I am lonely!
Every creature has a mate.
Every bird in the sky!
Even you are to be married!
Why am I denied the comforts
you allow yourself?
A moment ago
you were amazed at my intellect,
but now you harden your heart.
Please, do not be inconsistent.
I find it infuriating.
(LAUGHTER)
All I ask is the possibility
of love.
Love?
Yes.
You think it is a possibility for
you?Yes! A good man deserves it.
Are you a good man?
I would be! Oh, I would be!
I regret that you are lonely.
I did not foresee...
That I might have feelings?
You were an equation, a theorem.
I confess it!
A puzzle to be solved.
But if you are sentient
and if you will depart...
Frankenstein,
if you give me a companion,
I will quit Europe for ever.
I will vanish into air.
I will be gone. There will be
no more destruction.
Will you swear to be peaceful?
Yes! I beg you to believe me!
If you were to leave here,
never to return, ever,
and if you were to swear,
and to swear solemnly...
I swear by the blue sky,
by the white snow,
by the fire of love
that burns in my heart,
that if you grant my request
you will never have
to look on me again
for as long as the world
turns around!
You think it turns around?
Well, of course!
(LAUGHTER)
You must understand,
the work is hard.
You alone can do it.
You alone have the skill.
I alone, in the whole world!
With no-one to share the secret.
Look, down there. Do you see?
Little men, with their little lives!
Little houses! Little men!
I am different.
You, you are a king,
a king of science.
Build me a woman.
Please! I beg you! A bride.
A bride should be beautiful.
A bride should have pretty eyes
and shining hair.
She should not be hideous.
She should be as lovely as possible.
Oh, yes!
I will not repeat my mistakes.
We can only go forward,
we can never go back.
Master, work your magic once more.
I beg you!
A female? I'd never even considered
the question.
There are differences,
of course, of anatomy,
but also differences of what?
Of humour, temperament, skill?
I don't know!
What are females good at?
My God, what a challenge!
If I could build
something immaculate,
something that I could exhibit.
Not a demon, but a goddess!
A goddess!
Yes!
If she was perfect...
If she was indistinguishable from...
Imagine that!
Oh, I may be damned,
but I will attempt it.
You will comply with my request?
I will comply with your request.
IF you give me your word that
afterward you will leave us be.
I will! If you give me your word
that you will do it!
What's that for?
You shake it.
I shake it?
We seal the bargain. Take my hand.
Th... Th... Thank... Thank you.
Thank you.
My dream's come true!
Go home. Begin at once!
At home? I can't this at home!
Why not? What happens at home?
Do this work in my father's house?
No!Then go where you need to.
I will be watching!
(ECHO)
..will be watching...
(CLOCK CHIMES THREE)
Your post, sir.
Letters of condolence.
The Lord giveth,
and the Lord taketh away, sir.
I know, Clarice, I know.
Out.
Victor!
Where have you been?
In the mountains, on the sea of ice.
This is a house of death.
It is no time to go adventuring!
I must leave at once.
I have to make a long journey today.
Today?
What about William?
William?
Well, he isn't coming.
I must go to England. Goodbye.
England? Why?
Work.What work?
For a year I haven't seen you work!
What is this work for which
you must decamp to England?
I don't expect you to understand...
No, I do not understand!
I do not believe
your studies are so important.
I order you to remain
for the funeral!
I have no intention of obeying.
I must leave at once.
And your wedding?
It will have to be postponed.
But Elizabeth...
Elizabeth will wait.
I was in Ingolstadt for six years.
A little longer won't make much
difference.
Victor, why are you so sad?
When your mother was dying...
Please do not bring her into this!
When your mother was dying,
I gave a promise
that I would see you wed
your cousin Elizabeth.
That was my wife's last wish,
that you might be happily married.
You were such a brilliant child,
a carefree child,
alert and inquisitive,
the joy of our days!
I came to believe you would do great
things and I would be proud of you!
Instead, we have this sullenness,
this melancholy,
this low fog of gloom.
You flout my authority!
You do not respect the codes
by which we live!
If you insist on leaving,
I cannot stop you,
but you may tell
your fiancee yourself.
Elizabeth?
Where is the boy I remember?
Where is he, Victor?
Where has he gone?
(EERIE SIGH OF ICY BREATH)
Your father tells me
you are leaving us.
Why, Victor?
Why must you go to England?
Because in England they are at the
forefront of electro-chemistry.
I've read of breakthroughs
by vitalists, galvanists.
I must see for myself!For that,
you'll put off our wedding?
Yes. It's critical
for my experiments.
What are your experiments?
I'd say they're well beyond
a woman's scope.
Which part might be beyond my scope?
All of it, actually.
Are you suggesting
I'm less intelligent than you?
Yes.
Well, I mean less educated.
Well, that's hardly my fault.
I wasn't allowed to go to school.
But I can learn, Victor.
I could be your assistant.
Hm. What is a Voltaic pile?
A Leyden jar? Electric eggs?You
know perfectly well I don't know.
What is a Voltaic pile?
For storing an electrostatic charge.
You link several jars in parallel...
Oh, please, take me with you.
It sounds so exciting!
Firstly, I will to Oxford,
spend several months
at the university,
there is nothing exciting
about that.
I don't care! I'll come.
I'll be in the library all day.
I'll be as quiet as a mouse.
Let me come!
Subsequently, I will travel
to the isles of Scotland,
barren rocks in a barren ocean.
It is, I am told, an awful place.
I don't care! We'll be together!
It is no situation for a woman!
And do you think this is?
The world is turning, Victor,
and I'm sitting in Switzerland,
watching it!
I know it's picturesque,
the mountains, the lake,
but it's so quiet, it's oppressive
and the people are dull.
I want to go to Paris,
Rome, America!
I want to talk to you
about your work,
about the world, about music,
politics, everything!
I have no interest in music
or politics.
Have you any interest in me?
You are beautiful.
You will make a beautiful wife.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
Victor, what do you think I am,
a specimen?
May I ask you something?
I want to have children.
Do you want to have children?
Yes, of course...
No. Do you want to give me children?
God willing, yes I do.
Then show me how you'll give me
children.
Kiss me, Victor.
Touch me.
Feel my heart beat!
Must you go?
Can't you stay?
I wish I could stay.
I... I cannot.
Then go and do your work,
and be brilliant!
And after that, come home to me
and be my husband
and give me a dozen children!
Go.
Thank you.
VOICES: # Oh save us
from the sulph'rous hail
# Or lost in storm o'er blow-in
# The fiery surge beneath us laid
From Heaven received us falling
# Come thunder winged
and lightning... #
(STORM SWALLOWS UP THE SONG)
VICTOR: Is the weather always
like this?
This is quite a nice day!
It's not much o' a croft, sir.
The roof is poor.
Will you be all right here?
For my needs, it's fine.
Your wife can bring me some food?
She can, sir, but it's simple.
Fish, mainly.
We don't touch meat, do we, Rab?
Unless it swims, we don't eat it.
Eggs.
We eat eggs.
They're the exception. Eggs.
Oatcakes, turnips, carrots...
Aye, aye, all right!
Come on.
(WIND HOWLS)
Where do you want this, sir?
Set it down there.
Thank you, gentlemen.
Here is the price we agreed
for the porterage
and three months' rent.
But I would be prepared to give you
very much more, Ewan,
if you could perform
another service for me.
My field, you see,
is the human anatomy.
The human body.
To progress my research,
I require certain materials.
It's an unorthodox discipline
and somewhat disapproved of
in academic circles,
but you have my word
that it is for the public good.
Oh, I don't like the sound o' that!
Quiet, Rab!
We don't move in academic circles.
Go on, sir. It's illegal, I take it?
We are a long way
from any court of law.
The nights are dark,
and in science we keep our secrets.
What is it you want?
Human remains. Fresh.
He's a surgeon! I knew it!
Here, that's grave-robbing!We are
Christians in the Orkneys, sir!
We don't rob the dead
in their graves.
But the dead are dead, aren't they?
They're not coming back.
I do not subscribe to the view
that it is unethical
to use them for medical research.
No, nor do I.
Think, Rab, hey?
Shall we gain the upper hand
over sickness and disease?
Have you any idea
what we shall be capable of,
if brilliant men are allowed
to do our work?
Uncle Ewan...
Quiet, Rab!
I'll do nothing on my own island,
but what is it exactly
that you're after?
Have you heard of any young woman
who has died very recently?
Aye, on Ronaldsay.
Not your kin?
No, no' my kin.
Not diseased?
Drowned!
May God have mercy on her soul.
A good-lookin' lass, she was.
Rab liked her.
I did not. I liked her sister!
She was beautiful?
No' bad.
Good.
Are you prepared
to work to my exact specifications?
Well, Rab, he can't read...
I can read!
Do him a drawing.
Uncle Ewan...
You will do as the gentleman says!
How far is it to Ronaldsay?
(THUNDER CLAP)
EWAN: Is she in?
RAB: There's a bit sticking oot.
What is it?
I don't know, it's a girl!
Come on, laddie, push!
She's in!
You have strange taste, Rab,
that's all I can say.
I find her terrible skinny.
I said the sister.
The sister's fatter.
Uncle Ewan?
Aye.
What's he going to do?
I don't know.
This is no' right, Uncle Ewan.
As the man said, they're dead!
They're no' coming back.
Are you ready?
Aye.
Heave!
VICTOR: Have you got it?
Oh, Jesus!
Aye, sir.
Good. Haul it to the boat, Ewan.
This is only the first.
Is it, sir?
I shall need a regular supply
of internal organs.
Very good, sir.
Organs?
Quiet, Rab. Meat for the dogs.
Nothing you're no' familiar wi'.
Now, come on!
Uncle Ewan!
Is this how I was formed?
Stolen at night from the wet soil?
Made out of meat for the dogs?
Even I can feel disgust!
And will he fashion me a beauty
from this filth?
And will I want her,
stinking of death?
(THUNDER ROLLS)
(KNOCK AT THE DOOR)
VICTOR: Wait!
Come!
Here y'are, sir.
Thank you, Ewan.
That will be the last.
Thank you for all your service.
You will be leaving
our island soon?Soon.
And I have done you good service?
Excellent service, yes.
And the food was all right?
The food was unbelievable.
Sir, you're no' looking
too marvellous,
if you don't mind my saying.
I'm tired, that's all.
But my work is nearly done.
And let me tell you,
I think I can say I have excelled.
I'm very pleased to hear it.
Farewell to sickness and disease,
eh?
Goodbye!
Goodbye, Ewan.
Goodbye, sir.
(WIND WHISTLES OUTSIDE)
(THUNDER CLAP)
William!
So how do you do it?
It's late, you should be in bed.
How do you bring
dead things to life?
Is it easy?
No, it's hard.
It's some kind of miracle.
Tell me the secret.
When did you start?
At school.
Did you bring the teachers to life?
That really would be a miracle.
School was so boring!
I wanted to find out
why things exist,
HOW things exist.
Not absurd divinity
and idiotic music,
but the laws of existence!
I started to read forbidden books -
Agrippa, Paracelsus.
The alchemists!Yes!
They were true men of science.
They mapped the heavens. They
tracked the course of the stars.
They analysed and categorised
the air we breathe,
the circulation of the blood.
All of modern medicine
comes from them.
I too wished to penetrate nature.
Lay bare her deepest mysteries.
So I studied mathematics.
I experimented with galvanism...
What's that?
You induce spasms
in inanimate flesh with a current
from a chloride battery.
A zinc plate's laid on a solution of
ammonium chloride and Ceylon moss.
How thrilling!
And as I watched the current arc
between bismuth and antimony
I found myself asking,
where does the principle of life,
the actual spark of life itself,
where does it come from?
It comes from God.
Yes, but only from God?
I don't know.
Can a man be a god?
I don't know!
Well, I had to find out.
So off to the graveyard I went.
Oh, Victor! Yuk!
I watched flesh rot in the soil,
I watched worms eat eyes,
maggots chew the tissue
of the brain.
I went to charnel-houses,
executions.
I watched the moment of change
from life to death,
the specificity of the moment,
the annihilation of the spark,
until suddenly, months later,
in a fever of creativity,
I found that I could identify
and replicate
the prime cause of life!
What is it?
I can't tell you that, Will,
you're only little.
What are you going to do with it?
I don't know.
I have travelled
where no man has travelled.
I can create people, Will!
Living people!
Look at me.
I breathe the breath of God!
Will they reproduce?
What?
Will they have wombs, the females?
Will they breed?
How quickly will they breed?
How fast is the cycle?
How many in a litter?
50? 100? 1,000?
William!
And if the children breed with the
children, will they do your bidding?
What are you saying?
You are their king.
Will they do as you tell them
or will they be bad,
like the one who killed me?
CREATURE: Frankenstein!
Where is she?
She is here.
Show me, genius!
Wait!
Wait.
(CREATURE GASPS)
Look!
Isn't she fine?
She is beautiful!
Yes.
Your work is so detailed!
The cuts are so fine.
The lustre of her skin!
She is perfect, a perfect wife.
Frankenstein, I admire you.
I can't give her to you.
Why not?
How do I know what will happen
if I bring her fully to life?
I didn't know how you'd turn out,
how dangerous you would be.
How can I know about her?
Sir!
If it has been possible for me
to overcome my disgusting origins
and transform myself
into a rational being,
she, my wife, can do the same.
But if she doesn't?
But she will! I will teach her
morality, as De Lacey taught me.
You have sworn to live
as an outcast.
Supposing she prefers the town?
She has no choice.
We go to Argentina!
What if she refuses to accept
a bargain made
before she was even created?
Come on! Use your brain!
She might reject you.
She might abhor the sight of you!
She might take one look at you
and run.
She might say that she prefers
to live with a man, not a monster!
Stop talking! You are cruel!
Look at her! Look!
Exquisitely constructed,
wouldn't you agree?
Look at those cheeks,
those lips, those breasts!
Who would not desire those breasts?
What if she leaves you?
What if she finds someone else?
How will you feel if you are
deserted by one of your own species,
the only one of your own species,
the only one you can take
to your bed, how will you react?
I will run mad if she leaves me!
It's a risk, then, isn't it?
No, because I will give her
such adoration,
such devotion,
she will never want to leave!
So it's a risk I should take?
You must! You must! She is mine!
Please.
Are you saying you will protect her?
Nobody will harm her.
I will be there.
Are you saying you will love her?
Yes, I am!
Love is not something
one can teach or learn.
Either you feel it in your soul...
I do, master! I love her.
I do. I do!
Are you telling me you have a soul?
Say you believe me. I must!
How does it feel, to be in love?
It f.... It f....
It feels like all the life
is bubbling up inside me
and spilling from my mouth.
It feels like my lungs are on fire
and my heart is a hammer.
And it feels like
I can do anything in the world!
Ha-ha! Anything in the world!
Is that how it feels?
That is how it feels.
Bring her to life
and I will cherish her for ever.
Those are the words
I was waiting to hear.
You have shown that you have some
grasp of the emotion we call love.
Now, be patient.
I will complete her.
You can help me.
We will not send her out
into the world in this condition.
We will dress her,
dress her as a queen.
A queen!
Go to that trunk over there.
It contains some clothes
belonging to my fiancee.
Select the finest for your bride.
Now, let me work.
I will call you when you're needed.
I will dress her in lace and velvet.
I will give her silk and pearls.
I will walk in the garden
with my fair angelic Eve!
I will be Adam! She will be Eve!
And all the memory of hell
will melt like snow.
(FEMALE SCREAMS)
(SLICING AND HACKING)
What do you know
of the power of love?
It is a pool of unreason!
It is anarchic, volatile,
vertiginous, mad!
Above all, it is uncontrollable!
Millions of you on the Earth
coupling, procreating?
No, no.
You are the only one of your species
and that is how you will stay!
Awake, my fairest, my espoused!
Awake! Awake!
She will never awake!
(GRUNTS)
(KNOCK ON THE DOOR)
MAN (DISTANT): Sir!
Sir! Open this door!
MAN: Victor! Let us in!
Frankenstein, you broke your word!
(KNOCKING)
You may expect me again!
M. FRANKENSTEIN: Victor! Victor!
(THUNDER RUMBLES)
(POUNDING ON DOOR)
There's something running off!
Jesus Christ! What is it?
Victor! Open the door!
Father?
(PANTING)
What in God's name is this place?
Father, you came.
Victor, you were gone too long.
We were worried.
You do not know what I have done.
No matter what, boy, come home.
I must be married at once.
I must marry Elizabeth at once.
At once!
Please, help me get him
to the boat.Wait!
Take this. I want you to destroy it.
Your journal?
Destroy it, Father. Burn it!
No-one must read it again. You give
me your word as a magistrate.
This will be destroyed.
I give you my word. Come home.
Come, come.
What has he been doing here?
You, man, speak!
Medical research, sir, as he said!
Medical research?
Holy Christ.
(CHURCH BELL RINGS)
# Lift up your voice
and raise your wine
# To bless the house of Frankenstein
# The vows are sworn,
the knot is tied
# The garlands thrown
on groom and bride
# Lift up your voice
and raise your wine
# To bless the house of Frankenstein
# Once boy and girl,
now man and wife
# We wish them long
and fruitful life
# Lift up your voice
and raise your wine
# To bless the house of Frank... #
(DISTANT BELLS PEAL)
Listen!
You can still hear the bells ringing
over the water.
So you can.
Many congratulations, mistress.
It was a splendid day.
Thank you.
Will you please get me ready
for bed?Yes, mistress.
I want to look beautiful.
Yes, mistress.
Perhaps then he'll...
I'm sure he will.
He never touches me, Clarice.
He never comes near.
He barely spoke to me
after the service.
Well, he has always been peculiar.
What have I done wrong?
You've done nothing, mistress.
Men, you know! They're as nervous
as we are on their wedding night.
A lot of them have no experience
whatsoever.
I'm not nervous.
I know you're not, mistress.
And yet you don't know
what to expect, do you?
None of us do, first time.
It can come as quite a shock.
So just remember, there's no shame
in keeping your eyes shut.
Some ladies never get used to it,
to be perfectly honest.
Oh, but I'm sure you will.
Here we are, mistress.
You'll look as pretty as a picture.
Where is he?
He'll be along shortly, mistress.
You wait and see.
Having a glass or two, probably,
if he's anything like my husband.
He'd put a bag on my head
if he could.
(LAUGHTER)
Come along now, mistress,
let's pop you into bed.
First I must pray. That's all.
Good night, mistress, God bless.
(CLARICE GIGGLES)
Victor!
Report!
We patrolled the roof
and the terrace.
We have men down at the lake.
Good. Wait for me outside.
I'll join you presently.
Victor, what is going on?
There are guards at every door.
The house is secured.
Why? What is going on? Tell me.
I should have told you before.
Yes, I think you should!
It is one of my experiments,
Elizabeth.
You will find this hard to credit,
and there is little time to explain,
but the simple fact is, I...
I built a man.
You did what?
And succeeded in animating him.
Say that again?
I built a man!
"Animating him"?
Do you mean bringing him to life?
Yes, bringing him to life.
My creature, I brought him to life!
Your creature?
You don't believe me.
Yes.
Yes, I do.
If you say you have made a creature
and brought him to life,
then I do believe you, of course.
What is it, like a puppet?
No, it is a man, a functioning man!
A brute of a man!
Well, this is ridiculous.
You are telling me that
you've made some sort of creature,
with your electric eggs,
presumably, and it what?
It pursues me.
Victor, you have been very ill.
In Scotland
you had a nervous collapse.
There is a thing out there
and it means to destroy me!
I have lured it here
and now I must act.
I must kill him before he kills me!
What do you mean you have lured it
here?I knew he would come for...
For the... For the...
The wedding?
Did you send him an invitation?
(GASPS)
Victor, he wasn't on the list(!)
Elizabeth! This is serious,
I beg you to believe me.
You are asking me to believe
that you have created
some sort of monster?
Yes, yes...
Why?
I beg your pardon?
Why did you do that?
Because I had a vision.
A vision of perfection.
I followed Nature into her lair,
and I stripped her of her secrets.
I have brought torrents of light
into a darkening world.
I did it, Elizabeth, I did it!
I have never doubted
your brilliance.
I have beaten death!
I have done it!
I made a living thing!
But if you wanted to create life...
Yes, that's exactly what I wanted!
Then why not just give me a child?
We could have married years ago!
No, that's not...
Because that is how
we create life, Victor.
That is the usual way.
I am talking about science!
No.
You are talking about pride.
You've been trying God's work.
Is that what you're telling me?
And it has gone awry.
In you I found paradise,
but the apple is eaten.
We cannot go back.
You've meddled with the natural
order and led us into chaos
because you worship
the gods of electricity and gas.
What is wrong with you men?
I will kill this thing
which I foolishly made
and then I will come back to you.
Please, don't go! Hold me, please!
Time for that when this is done,
Elizabeth.
I do love you.
Dear God, watch over him!
Don't scream! I will not hurt you.
Don't scream! I need your help.
Can you guess who I am?
But he didn't mention
what I looked like, did he?
Are you curious, Elizabeth?
Do not scream. I will release you.
Turn around. Look at me.
(SHE GASPS)
I need your help.
I have a grievance.
Victor did this?
Do you think he's clever?
A genius!
Yes, that's right!
What is your name?
My name?
What luxury that would be!
He didn't give me one.
Touch.
What do you feel, Elizabeth?
Heat.
And here?
A heartbeat.
Just like yours.
Now if you please,
we'll have none of that!
(AUDIENCE LAUGHS)
You say you have a grievance?
Madam!
Your husband is a good man,
but he does not keep his word.
If you had a child and it looked
like me, would you abandon it?
I'd never abandon a child.
Are you sure?
I'm sure.
No matter how repulsive?
I am sure!
Well, he did!
He left me because I look like this,
because I am different.
If Victor has treated you poorly,
I shall speak to him.
You may count on that.
Isn't he coming to bed?
He must learn to take responsibility
for his actions...
Surely he desires you
on your wedding night?
..and that we must always
stand up for the disadvantaged.
Absolutely!
Give voice to the oppressed.
Will you put my case?
What is it you want?
I did not ask to be born,
but once born, I will fight to live.
All life is precious, even mine.
He promised to give me
the only thing I lack,
the only thing I need to be content,
but then he...
..he broke his word.
I want a friend, that's all.
I'll be your friend,
if you'll let me.
Will you?
If you need help,
then let's see what we can do.
Sit with me.
I will not hurt you, I promise.
I am educated.
I know right from wrong.
Incredible.
You are quite extraordinary.
Me?
Yes, you.
Perhaps I am a genius, too?
(LAUGHS FONDLY)
Perhaps you are.
What are you good at?
I am good at the art
of assimilation.
I have watched and listened
and learned.
At first, I knew nothing at all,
but I studied the ways of men
and slowly I learnt how to ruin,
how to hate,
how to debase, how to humiliate.
And at the feet of my master,
I learnt the highest
of human skills,
the skill no other creature owns.
I finally learnt how to lie.
Lie?
Tonight I have met someone...
..perfect.
Thank you for trying to understand.
But he broke his promise,
so I break mine.
I am truly sorry, Elizabeth.
What do you mean?
Victor!
No! No!
No! Please! No! Please!
Please, no!
No!
(CREATURE GRUNTS RHYTHMICALLY)
Victor!
(CREATURE CRIES IN ECSTASY)
(ELIZABETH SOBS)
(SNAP)
(VICTOR GASPS)
Now I am a man?
You should shoot me!
Kill me!
Please!
(GUN CLATTERS)
Elizabeth?
Sir?
Pick her up, Clarice.
Bring her to my rooms.
Sir, she's dead!
Carry her!
She's gone, sir...
I can bring her back, Clarice.
I can bring her back!
Quickly! I have the equipment.
I can reverse the process. She's
lost no blood! She's still warm.
Quickly!
Sir, you must prevent him!
Stop this at once!
She's dead, sir!No.
My dear Elizabeth!
Gone for ever! Cover her.
No. I can...
I can bring her back! Trust me!
What do you mean?
I mean resurrect her!
What are you saying?
He's gone mad, sir!
I'm not mad.
I have powers
beyond your comprehension.
How dare you call me mad?
Victor, this is not godly!
I cannot bear it!
You! Wherever you are, whenever you
turn behind you, I will be there!
Restrain him!
First William, now Elizabeth!
Your mind is disordered!
My mind is superb!
It is superb!
Take him away! He's monstrous!
Oh, dear God, please forgive me.
Sir, be still.
What have I brought into this world?
You did your best.
I failed.
(MELANCHOLIC CHORDS)
My heart is black.
It stinks.
My mind,
once filled with dreams of beauty,
is a furnace of revenge!
Three years ago, when I was born,
I laughed for joy
at the heat of the sun,
I cried at the call of the birds.
The world was a cornucopia to me!
Now, it is a waste of frost
and snow.
The son becomes the father.
The master, the slave.
I have led him across the Black Sea,
through Tartary and Russia.
I have led him past Archangel
and out on to the ice.
We go north, always north.
His dogs are dead,
his supplies exhausted.
But we have a compact we must keep.
He lives for my destruction.
I live to lead him on.
# La-la-la-la! Frankenstein! #
Come!
What is the matter?
Oh. Are you cold?
Do you feel forsaken? Ha.
Come, great explorer!
Look, there is food.
Seal meat! Explorers' food! Come!
You wanted power. Look at you.
Immortality! Ha, look at you!
Why did you treat me
like a criminal?
You killed my wife!
You killed mine!
You have brought this upon yourself.
Have I? How? How have I?
Did I ask to be created?
Did I ask you to make me
from some muck in a sack?
I am different!
I know I am different. I have tried
to be the same, but I am different!
Why can I not be who I am?
Why does humanity detest me?
The only one to show pity
was Elizabeth.
Lovely Elizabeth.
I can still taste her lips,
her...
strawberry lips.
I can still feel her warm breasts,
her thighs.
Mm. I know what I have done!
Up! Up you get!
We go on, on to the Pole!
Let's find the source of the magnet!
Let's make some discoveries!
What do you say?
Bring light to the darkness! Ha-ha!
Up! Up!
Master, don't tell me
you are dead already!
Don't you have more stamina
than that? We've hardly started!
Don't leave me.
Don't leave me alone!
You and I, we are one.
While you live, I live.
When you are gone, I must go, too.
Awake.
Master, what is death?
What will it feel like?
Can I die?
Frankenstein.
Will you forgive me my cruelty?
Please forgive me.
I am driven on. I cannot stop.
The moon, it draws me on.
The solitary moon!
We can only go forward,
we can never go back.
Mm?
Master, drink! It's good wine.
Drink.
All I wanted was your love.
I would have loved you
with all my heart.
My poor creator!
(VICTOR SPLUTTERS)
Master! You do love me! You do!
I do not know what love is.
I will teach you!
Every... chance I had of love,
I...
threw away.
Every shred of human warmth,
I cut to pieces.
Hatred is what I know.
Only you give me purpose.
You, I desire.
Go on.
Walk on.
You must be destroyed.
Good boy!
That's the spirit!
Bring my miserable line to an end!
Ha!
Up!
Come!
Scientist!
Destroy me!
Destroy your creation!
Come!
(HARSH LABORIOUS BEAT)
(HEARTBEAT)
(APPLAUSE)
(CHEERS AND WHISTLES)
Subtitles by Sky Access Services
www.skyaccessibility.sky